all right we're gonna be talking about
world of warcraft classic and as
these things go i've gotta lay down my
bonafides
i have been playing world of warcraft
since launch i have been playing world
of warcraft
a lot since launch
i have been playing world of warcraft a
lot since
launch i have the ivory raptor which
involved farming of 1000 gold within the
first
six months the game was out and i did
that in
like three a few years ago blizzard sent
me this nice little statuette
commemorating 10 years of
unbroken subscription to the game which
means that this is a cute little gesture
from a company that made a game i really
like
but also kind of yikes i have my
brawler's guild rewards mage tower
rewards swift flight form
and even the absurd realm first
illustrious
jewel crafter why did i get this why did
why did i do what needed to be done to
get this
point is yes i have played a lot of
world of warcraft
[Music]
[Applause]
and in this video i want to talk about
youtuber isil mazzard's
opinions on video games and why you
should quit them
he's also known as but i don't want to
try to pronounce that
at all most people in this audience
they know what it's like to stay up till
2 a.m playing a video game
and they may know what it's like to stay
until 6 a.m or to find their their room
like this is this is common this is
widespread not everyone can research the
cure for cancer
not everyone can live a life as exciting
as mine i went to cambodia and did
humanitarian work i did research you
know my life is interesting in different
ways
i get that but like my perspective is
you still matter i still care about you
i still care about what you could be
doing productively with those three
hours a day
i don't accept the notion that you have
zero creativity
zero potential whether that's
politically or otherwise to make the
world a better place
zero artistic potential whatever i
really believe that
you can do something better with those
three hours a day and if you don't
believe it
what do you think of yourself so he says
you can do something
better with those three hours a day but
why
does everything you have to do have to
be the best
possible thing that you could do at any
given moment
like the amount of stress that would put
on your life and
how much it would affect your health in
the long term
we are not perfectionists or we
shouldn't be because there is no perfect
so instead we should just aim high and
that's where balance comes in
now i can get his perspective here
if people are spending too much time
playing video games
they're probably not learning about a
lot of things they could be
they're not doing stuff that could
potentially help them make the world a
better place which
let's be honest we do need more people
who are actively trying to make
the world a better place because most
people are just
you know leeching off of the planet and
don't care
at the same time we all need activities
to de-stress to be
our best you need to reduce stress to be
most effective in anything you're doing
video games
are a source of creativity inspiration
it's a piece of art that you're dealing
with especially if you're dealing with
the best video games
and people who don't play video games or
like them very much
might not agree with that but i can tell
you for those of us
who have really fallen in love with any
video game
that we've played at least a few of them
we can tell you that those experiences
were
tremendously worthwhile it made me fee
it makes me feel
good it's not enough i can i can
literally say with you
so for example most of my friends in
vietnam
they are now living a life that you know
um
yo go go to work go to school go to uni
and then go back home do whatever they
like
you know like playing games shopping
going to the property
and um do all kind of stuff watching
movies
netflix you know i'm at the back of my
mind when i do those things when i'm
playing games when i
watch netflix you know i love the
strength of things
to be honest i love stranger things that
episode is amazing i really want to
watch it every day
but whenever i watch it i just keep
asking myself i'm not asking you know
i'm not
intentionally asking myself but somehow
my subconscious mind
giving the warning it keeps
it keeps giving the warnings that hey
bro
hey bro hey
hey what about you what you know
why are you doing this
what are what are the
you know the you know you know the when
playing games the
the experience bar right experience bar
all right so it's like i'm i'm i'm at
level one
i have to gain experience
step by step stone by stone to
to reach um enough uh you know
experience
one two to get into the the level two
the level two and then keep going keep
going
and i'm actually you know um gotten to
the level three
and four and five and level six and the
more experience i got
you know the the the the the you know
the higher level i got
all right so i'm keep thinking in that
way
that's that's not bad an analogy so i'm
keep thinking in that way
and then thinking man why you keep
watching
netflix when you give
playing games when you keep hanging out
with friends that
don't even matter to your future to your
life
and you even like when you hang out just
just don't say anything like meaningful
just
just hop on the phone and go into the
facebook
on social friends when when when we are
social like
socializing that's that's crazy right
so i'm just thinking that man i feel i
feel that kind of
feeling really guilty feeling
when when i'm doing the thing that i
like
but it's not giving me the
the results that all the the the goals
the achievement that i want on this
subject
i don't completely agree you know i
believe in moderation
like balance anybody who has achieved
a ton in their lifetime will tell you
i'm sure
that balance was incredibly important
for them you know i i can't
you know i can literally a little
literally
play games for five years watch
next week for five years and look at the
result i got
nothing but instead of doing that i
expand my my but because i know the way
that the only way that get getting me
better is
is to constantly every single day
15 minutes 20 minutes 45 minutes
put myself into books put myself into
the audios put myself into you know
talking with strangers
and go go go to the internet read about
the business
the all kind of things the self
development
so here we learn that apparently it's
the quantity of time that makes
isil think that you should quit video
games well you know what you
can manage your time and play games in
moderation and
maybe it's not 12 hours a year but maybe
it is
for someone like me at least also i
understand where he's coming from here
to an extent like you don't want to
waste too much time playing video games
and i do think that the message to play
less
is actually a good message and i used to
be addicted to video games when i was
younger for sure
and i still love video games but you
know i don't play them
that much i wasn't playing them hardly
at all for like a decade
and i got back into them with a final
fantasy 7 remake and
the upcoming call of duty is a lot of
fun to play
maybe like 50 to 100 hours that
seems to be reasonable this is the part
of the equation
where even the most honest interlocutors
seem to become very evasive
uncomfortable and strained
in their replies do you notice how many
edits he had
in that short clip before he suggests
50 hours per year i did not
add those edits maybe like 50 to 100
hours that
seems to be reasonable 50 hours per year
50 hours per year playing video games
that would be four hours
per month do you believe that this guy
plays video games for only four hours
per month
the two games he mentioned one of them
takes
40 hours to complete it's a plot-based
role-playing game do you think he played
for one hour a week only
do you think he spread out those 40
hours
over a whole year i don't the other game
you mentioned call of duty
people pour huge numbers of hours into
that game
i don't know how many hours this guy
plays i think he doesn't know
i think he doesn't know how many hours
he's really spending playing video games
because he doesn't want to know even the
upper limit estimate he gives which
again he seems to struggle to come up
with a suggestion of 100 hours oh right
so that would be
that'd be a little bit more than eight
hours per month
right there are four weeks in a month
think about
how much time that would be per week
think about whether or not that's really
been true of you
at any stage of your life when you play
video games think about whether or not
that's true about your brothers
your cousins your friends your
colleagues when they played video games
was it really was it really eight hours
a month and he talks about how he
doesn't think he has a gym habit but
actually i've heard him in past
videos mentioned that he thought that he
spent too much time working out so he
is really focused on getting the most
out of his time which is great
but that isn't a necessity give yourself
the time to do what you want to do
because that
is what makes it life valuable and i
suppose my point is
more fundamentally no matter what
the real answer happens to be no matter
how the math
turns out if you have the
self-discipline to really write it down
and face the facts isn't it significant
that so many of us
struggle to be honest about this that
it's so hard
to face up to it and look guys it's not
just video games
all right i do have regrets about how
much time
i spend lifting weights in the gym
ultimately
10 years from now or 20 years from now
it's not going to matter how many
push-ups i did this week and in some
sense
if i finish writing another chapter of
the book i'm writing or if i finish
recording and uploading this video and
it changes just a few hundred people's
lives
in a sense that does matter in a sense
both what i can learn
and what i can teach others really
matters
in a way that doing more push-ups or
bench pressing
more weight can never matter at all and
of course
the comparison between exercise and
video games really they're not
comparable at all but you know i have a
little orange book
and i write down in it how many hours i
spend studying
the chinese language and it's sad you
know it's sad to behold
it's sometimes it's sad because i feel
that i've worked so hard
but really when you see the numbers
written down on the page it's not that
many hours and sometimes it's sad
because i look at the page and it's so
many hours it's so many hours of my life
taken up by the study of this language
where i can't really know what positive
outcomes will come from where i can't
really know
if it'll matter if i'll really be able
to learn anything if i'll be able to
teach anything else it'll be part of my
personal progress or if instead this is
something that is
holding me back sure for all of us
a great deal of soul searching is in
order
but no i i just don't think that any of
these excuses
for playing video games make sense i
don't think any of us
has 50 hours 100 hours 200 hours
300 hours to spare and when you do the
math
if you can with detachment look at the
numbers
i think you might be a little bit
saddened to realize how much of your
life you've lost
to video games so yeah it's a topic very
much worth examining
and i don't completely agree with isil
on that but
i do think that he's an intellectually
honest guy
most the time so in that respect
it would be great to talk to him about
it more on discord or on youtube
but if not just take this opinion for
what it's worth
and do with your time which you think
is best when you're really thinking
about it and considering it
this guy has the honesty to say that
when he was younger
he was a video game addict and i
appreciate
his honesty just hearing the sound of
his voice
talking about this guy in the purple
mario brothers t-shirt
you know he doesn't sound like a
well-educated man
he doesn't sound like an intelligent man
let me tell you something
there was a time when i didn't sound the
way i sound
either i can remember being a teenager
not just my first year in university my
first day
in university and people thought i was
in my 30s
just based on my manner of speaking
i really didn't look that old i remember
a guy
he was a professor at the university but
his hobby
was being a handwriting expert and he
saw my handwriting before he met me
and he said he had determined that my
minimum age was that i was in my mid
50s based on my handwriting let me tell
you something the contrast isn't just
between me and this guy and the purple
t-shirt
i have a lot of brothers and sisters
okay
my brothers grew up obviously in the
same culture
i grew up with they don't sound like me
they don't
talk like me because they don't live
like me
all right the decisions this guy made in
the past
and the decisions he's making right now
to play video games
they have shaped the man he became and
look
when i was his age i was really a lot
more
rough around the edges could go into a
long discourse now about how different i
am now at age 42
from how i was at sage 22 but guess what
you know the contrast between the man he
is
at his current age and the man i was at
that age
it runs really deep and you may not
realize
what it is you're sacrificing by making
the choice to spend all those hours
playing video games but what you're
sacrificing is precisely
the man you you could have become my
perspective
is you still matter i still care about
you
i don't accept the notion that you have
zero creativity
zero potential whether that's
politically or otherwise to make the
world a better place zero artistic
potential whatever
i really believe that you can do
something better with those three hours
a day and if you don't believe it
what do you think of yourself your
intellectual potential
is something i can't know
and it's something you can't know either
but the one thing we can be certain
about is that you're snuffing it out
by playing video games
[Music]